Scheme Name:
Indira Gandhi National Disability Pension Scheme

Level:
Central

Category:
Banking,Financial Services and Insurance, Social welfare & Empowerment

Tags:
Differently Abled, Pension, Below Poverty Line - BPL

Details:
Indira Gandhi National Disability Scheme was launched on February 2009 by the Ministry of Rural Development headed by the Central Government to support the disabled people in our country. This scheme introduced under National Social Assistance Program provides monthly pension to disabled people for the prosperity of their lives. Any disabled person whose age is more than 18 years, and with disability 80% or more belonging to the poverty line can apply for this scheme. ﻿

Benefits:
A pension of Rs.300/- per month is provided to Divyangjan between 18-79 years. A pension of Rs.500/- per month will be provided to Divyangjan aged 80 years and above. ﻿

Eligibility:
The eligibility criteria for a disabled person to avail of the benefits are as follows. ﻿ The age of the applicant should be 18 years and above. The applicant should be a resident of India. The applicant should be a physically or mentally disabled person. The applicant’s disability should be more than 80%. Dwarfs are also eligible for this scheme. The applicant should belong to the Below Poverty Line.

Required Documents:
BPL Card Aadhaar card Age Proof - For age, the birth certificate or school certificate may be relied on. In their absence ration card and EPIC may be considered. If there is no valid document, any Medical Officer of any government hospital may be authorized to issue the age certificate. Disability certificate:- Disability certificate (80% and More) issued from Chief Medical Officer, Community Health Centre or Primary Health Centre will be accepted. Passport Size Photographs. ﻿

Application Process:
One can download UMANG App or visit website https://web.umang.gov.in/web_new/home  The citizen can login using mobile number and OTP. Once logged In, citizen can search for NSAP. Click on “Apply Online” Fill the basic details, choose the mode of payment of pension, upload photo and click on “Submit”. ﻿

Source:
https://www.myscheme.gov.in