Scheme Name:
National Livestock Mission: Genetic Improvement of Pig Breeds - Import of Exotic Pig Germplasm

Level:
Central

Category:
Agriculture,Rural & Environment, Business & Entrepreneurship

Tags:
Pig, Pig Semen, Import Exotic Pig, Pig Germplasm, Livestock Agencies, Livestock Board, Animal Husbandry

Details:
The "Import of Exotic Pig Germplasm" is a component under the Genetic Improvement of Pig Breeds activity of the Sub-Mission on Breed Development of Livestock and Poultry, part of the National Livestock Mission (NLM). This initiative is introduced by the Department of Animal Husbandry and Dairying, under the Ministry of Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying, Government of India. Under this scheme, the Central Government will assist the States for need based import of pig germplasm to increase productivity of the non-descript animals and to produce good quality cross bred animals to increase per animal meat production. The superior exotic breeds will be maintained as pure breeds in the nucleus farms at the state government. However, the State needs to formulate and notify their breeding policy for pigs before sending the proposal for import of germplasm. The scheme is implemented by the State Implementing Agencies of the State Animal Husbandry Department. Objectives: Inclusion of superior male germplasm in existing native gene pool for genetic upgradation of indigenous pigs for production of crossbred animals with higher per animal productivity.

Benefits:
Pattern of Assistance: One time assistance will be provided to the state for import of pig exotic germplasm in the form of live animals on cost sharing basis 60:40 for all States except NER & Himalayan States where it will be 90:10.

Eligibility:
Eligible Beneficiaries: State Livestock Agencies State Livestock Boards Animal Husbandry Department, State Government

Required Documents:
1.	Details of agency 2.	Project Proposal details 3.	Budget Estimates 4.	Approval from Competent Authority 5.	Bank Account Details 6.	Any other documents as required

Application Process:
Step 1: Visit the Official Website of "National Livestock Mission" and click " Apply Here ". Step 2: The following methods of Logging In will be displayed: Login as Entrepreneur Login as Government / Other Agencies Login as Research & Innovation Login to the website using your preferred method. Step 3: On the next page, verify your Mobile Number via OTP. You will be taken to the Online Application Form. Step 4: In the form, fill in all the mandatory fields and upload all the mandatory documents in the specified format and size. Step 5: Agree to the "Declaration & Authorization" by ticking the checkbox. Provide the Date & Place, and finally click "Submit". Post-Application Processes Step 1: Screening of application by State Implementing Agency (SIA) SIA will scrutinize the submitted application and will recommend the application of the entrepreneurs/ eligible entities to avail balance financing for the project through scheduled banks or financial institutions like National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC) etc. Step 2: Loan sanction by Lender After the recommendation of the project by SIA, the same will be considered by the bank or financial institutions for financing. Lender will pick the application along with all the documents from the portal and will approve the loan after examining the project/ documents submitted by applicant and completing their internal diligent process. After sanctioning the loan, Lender will upload sanction letter on the portal. Step 3: Recommendation from State Level Executive Committee (SLEC) Once the bank or financial institution sanction the project, SIA shall place the same in SLEC for recommending the application to the Central Government (Department of Animal Husbandry & Dairying). Step 4: Approval of subsidy by DAHD DAHD will approve the subsidy and will mark the approval of the same on portal. Step 5: Disbursement and release of subsidy After compliance of terms and conditions mentioned in the sanction letter, lender will disburse the loan amount to the beneficiary. fund the subsidy amount for the approved projects through Small Industries Development Bank of India (SIDBI) to the lending Bank or financial institutions as the case may be to release the subsidy to Beneficiaries. Track Application Status You can check your application status from the "TRACK STATUS" tab available in the upper right corner of the portal Help and Support If you encounter any issues or have questions, visit the " Contact Us " page.

Source:
https://www.myscheme.gov.in