Scheme Name:
National Handicrafts Development Programme: Infrastructure And Technology Support: URBAN HAAT

Level:
Central

Category:
Business & Entrepreneurship, Skills & Employment

Tags:
Entrepreneurship, Artisan, Handloom, Handicraft, Weaver, Infrastructure, Technology Support, Urban Haat

Details:
The scheme "Infrastructure and Technology Support: URBAN HAAT" is a Component/Sub-Scheme under the Umbrella Scheme "National Handicrafts Development Programme". The objective of this component is to set up a permanent marketing infrastructure in towns/ metropolitan cities to provide direct marketing facilities to handicrafts artisans/handloom weavers. This will enable them to sell their products around the year to a wider target audience (or customer segment). There will be an adequate number of stalls selling authentic Indian cuisine from various regions in the country by rotation.

Benefits:
Financial Assistance and Funding Pattern for the Implementing Agencies: For Urban Haat : ₹8,00,00,000/- per unit. Funding Split: 40% by O/o DC(HC) and DC(HL) each; 20% by the implementing agency. Land Contribution: Provided by the implementing agency, in addition to the 20% contribution. Special Areas (NER, J&K, Ladakh, A&N Islands, Lakshadweep): 45% by O/o DC(HC) and DC(HL) each; 10% by the implementing agency. Renovation Assistance: Up to ₹2,50,00,000/- with 100% borne by O/o DC(Handicrafts) & DC(Handlooms). ﻿ NOTE 1: Assistance will also be given for Mini Urban Haats on need-based and feasibility. The financial assistance will be based on the number of stalls, land area & other deliverables in a proportionate manner. The PAMC shall comprise DC(HC), DC(HL), and a representative of IFW. ﻿ Upon receipt of the Financial Assistance, the following shall be the deliverables for the Implementing Agency: Erection of 50-80 Stalls of 10x8 sq. ft. each. 2 Toilets each for Ladies and Gents Dormitory for Craftspersons with provisions for a minimum of 100 people Food Court Pavilion /Stage for Cultural Programme Store Room Meeting/Conference Room Souvenir Shop ﻿ Benefits for the Buyers/Tourists: The Food & Craft Bazaar will provide leisure & recreational facilities for domestic as well as international tourists on the lines of Dilli Haat, which has already attained a prominent status amongst domestic & International buyers/ tourists.

Eligibility:
Local statutory bodies, Apex cooperative Societies, and National level Apex Societies (registered under society act/ trust act, etc.). Producer Company supported by O/O DC Handicrafts. Only implementing agencies with a minimum audited annual turnover of Rs. 1.5 Cr in the last three consecutive years will be eligible for implementation of infrastructure projects. However, this provision shall not be applied in the case of Central/State Govt. agencies as an Implementing Agency (IA).

Required Documents:
For Fresh Proposals: Proposal in prescribed proforma. Recommendation letter of Field office/Regional Office. Valid Registration Certificate. Article & Memorandum of Association. Bye-Laws. Three years Balance Sheet & audited statement of accounts. Annual Report of last Year. Affidavit in respect of Non-Corrupt Practice and validity of Registration. Land ownership document/ Lease agreement for the proposed project/Detailed Project Report. Feasibility report of the project to be certified by a scheduled commercial bank. Construction plan and cost estimate duly authenticated by Architect/ Chartered Engineer. Third-party assessment report from a recognized Chartered Engineer/ technical valuer for equipment/ machines to be installed Undertaking that balance of the total cost to be borne by the implementing agency, along with escalated cost, if any. Any other documents mentioned in Proforma/ desired by the competent authority. ﻿ NOTE 1: All documents should be attested by Implementing Agency. NOTE 2: The implementing agency will be required to sign a Memorandum of understanding specifying quantified deliverables.  For Reimbursement Proposals: Monthly Performance Report/ Performance cum Achievement Report (as applicable) with photographs. Verification report (Gist of expenditure) with the mode of payment from concerned Asst. Director, Handicrafts Service Centre/Field formation Utilization Certification in GFR 12A duly verified/certified by Chartered Accountant with membership No. and countersigned by Implementing Agency. An audited statement of accounts and statement of expenditure duly verified/certified by Chartered Accountant with membership No. and countersigned by Implementing Agency. An inspection report from the concerned AD of the field office. Any other documents desired by the competent authority. ﻿ For Fresh Proposals as well as Reimbursement Proposals, the applicant is required to certify the following: 1. No financial assistance has been received from any other source for the same purpose. 2. The provisions of the scheme have been fully understood and we take responsibility for the successful completion of the project within the stipulated time. 3. All infrastructures are available with the organization to implement the project. 4. There is no duplication of efforts that takes place with existing schemes of other ministries. 5. The Organization is not involved in any corrupt practices and has not been black-listed by any central/state agencies. 6. No UC is pending in any scheme of the O/o DC (Handicrafts). ﻿ ﻿

Application Process:
For the Implementing Agencies: Step 1: Download the prescribed proforma . Step 2: Attach all required self-attested supporting documents . Step 3: Submit the completed proposal in hard copy to the concerned Handicraft Service Center (HSC). ﻿ Step 4: HSC forwards the proposal with recommendations to the Headquarters Office and sends a copy to the Regional Director, O/o the DC (HC). Step 5: Ensure the hard copy of the proposal reaches the Headquarters Office, O/o the DC (HC). Note: The proposal sent earlier without any invitation or received after the timeline/last date, mentioned above, will not be entertained. Incomplete proposals without the mandatory enclosures and proposals that are not clearly recommended and received after the due date will not be considered. For the Artisans: Step 1: Download the Online Application Form . Step 2: Fill in all the mandatory details: Event Type, Aadhaar Number, Name of Artisan, Photo, ID Card No., Date of Issue, Recognition, Gender, Category, Father/Husband Name, Address, State, District, PIN Code, Mobile Number, Email ID, Craft Practice, Sub Craft Practice. Step 3: Upload the required (self-attested) documents related to: Past Haat-Bazaar-Exhibition attended in the last five years; Assistance detail who will support you in the Exhibition. Step 4: Check the "Declaration" box and click "Submit". You will get acknowledgment of the successful submission of the application on your registered Email ID / Mobile Number, along with a Reference ID.

Source:
https://www.myscheme.gov.in