Scheme Name:
Rastriya Arogya Nidhi - Health Minister’s Cancer Patient Fund

Level:
Central

Category:
Health & Wellness, Social welfare & Empowerment

Tags:
BPL, Cancer Treatment

Details:
The “Health Minister’s Cancer Patient Fund (HMCPF) within the Rashtriya Arogya Nidhi (RAN)” was set up in 2009. ﻿ It is a scheme to provide financial assistance to poor patients living below poverty line and suffering from cancer, for their treatment at 27 Regional cancer centers (RCCs). Revolving Funds have been created in all the 27 Regional Cancer Centres (RCCs) and funds up to Rs. 50 lakhs will be placed at their disposal. ﻿

Benefits:
Financial assistance of  ₹5,00,000/- (Rs. Five lakh only) is provided towards treatment. ﻿ Note: Individual cases, which require assistance of more than ₹5,00,000/- will be sent to the Ministry for processing. The maximum financial assistance admissible under the Scheme will be ₹15,00,000/- ﻿ List of the treatments under this scheme - ﻿ Radiation treatment of all kinds including Radio Therapy and Gama Knife Surgery/GRT/MRT/Brachytherapy. Anti-Cancer Chemotherapy with supportive medication including hormonal therapy. Bone Marrow Transplantation- Allogenic& Autologous Diagnostic Procedures- including PET scan. Surgery for operable malignant tumours. ﻿

Eligibility:
Eligibility for Health Minister’s Cancer Patient Fund (HMCPF) within RAN : ﻿ The fund will provide financial assistance to patients, living below poverty line who is suffering from Cancer. Assistance is admissible for treatment in 27 Regional Cancer Centre(s) (RCC) only. Central Govt./State Govt. /PSU employees are not eligible for financial assistance from HMCPF. Grant from HMCPF would not be used where treatment /facilities for cancer treatment are available free of cost ﻿

Required Documents:
Application form in prescribed proforma duly signed by the treating doctor and countersigned by the Medical Superintendent of the Government hospital/institute. Monthly income of the patient/parents duly certified by the Block/Mandal Development Officer/ Tehsildar/ SDM/ Special Officer of Municipal Board/ District Officer, certifying that the beneficiary belongs to a family living below poverty line in the area of their jurisdiction indicating source of income . The original certificate is required for the purpose. Copy of the Ration Card duly attested by a Gazetted Officer with official seal. ﻿

Application Process:
Step 1: Download the prescribed application form (Refer Page No: 10, 11 and 12). Step 2: Complete the form in the prescribed format, ensuring all required sections are accurately filled. Step 3: Get the form signed and stamped by the treating doctor/ Head of Department (HOD). Also, ensure it is countersigned by the Medical Superintendent of the Government hospital where the patient is receiving treatment. Step 4: Once all signatures are obtained and the form is fully completed, submit the application form along with all required documents to the concerned Government hospital. ﻿ ﻿

Source:
https://www.myscheme.gov.in