Scheme Name:
Scheme For Campus Accommodation & Facilities Enhancing Social Experience

Level:
Central

Category:
Education & Learning

Tags:
Accomodation, Institution, Hostel

Details:
"Scheme for Campus Accommodation & Facilities Enhancing Social Experience (CAFES)" introduced by the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE), Department of Higher Education (DoHE), aims to support the construction or extension of hostels to ensure that students have a suitable living space that promotes academic growth and personal development. It caters to SC/ST, differently-abled, and NER students, enabling them to pursue education without the burden of domestic responsibilities. Financial aid is provided for constructing the hostel and related facilities like gyms, sports clubs, and libraries, aiming to create a holistic learning environment.

Benefits:
Limit of Funding from AICTE: ₹ 3.25 crore Construction of Hostel: ₹ 3,00,00,000/-. Establishment of Gym equipment: ₹ 5,00,000/-. Establishment of Indoor sports club: ₹ 10,00,000/-. Establishment of the library  for preparation of tests for competitive examination/higher education : ₹ 10,00,000/-. Disbursement of the Funds: First Installment (50%): Disbursed in advance upon proposal sanction for hostel construction. Second Installment (40%): Released after spot inspection and utilization of the first installment. Third Installment (10%): Disbursed after submission of the completion certificate and all mandatory documents. Additional Funds: For gym, sports club, and library after the second installment and competitive quotations.

Eligibility:
The Institutes must be AICTE-approved Government/Government-aided engineering colleges, university departments, or polytechnics. The Institutes must have been in existence for at least five years. The Institute must have more than: For CAFES SC/ST students: At least 200 SC/ST students on roll. For CAFES NER: At least 60 students from NER per year. For CAFES Differently Abled: At least 150 differently-abled students on roll. Terms and Conditions: Annual Progress Report should be submitted within 2 months of completion of the year. After completion of the project, a Project Completion Report should be submitted. Utilization Certificate and Statement of Accounts in prescribed proforma duly audited by the Finance Officer/Account Officer. If the construction work is not initiated within six months then the amount is to be refunded to AICTE with accrued interest with justification for not being able to start. Any change in the construction plan leading to a reduction in the facilities or area would not be allowed. ﻿ ﻿

Required Documents:
Hostel Plan Abstract of the estimates PWD rate certificate The enrolment figures given above are as per official records and depict the actual physical strength of students in that particular year. (Proforma enclosed in Annexure A) Two copies of the plan and detailed estimates duly signed by the Engineer/Architect and countersigned by the Principal. Conformity with the norms as suggested by the AICTE and the rates are as per CSR of the region. The minimum carpet area should not be less than 1200 sqm. (Proforma enclosed in Annexure B) A certificate from the college indicating the covered area in sq. meters cost per sq. meter, the basis of the estimates on the rates/schedule of rate, the period for the completion of the project, and the likely date of starting the construction. (Proforma enclosed in Annexure C) Land ownership and possession certificate from the concerned Tehsildar /SDM duly countersigned by the Principal. Also, a certificate from the Principal to the effect that the land is free from any litigation, clear from Forest Dept. Norms and also whether the institute comes under Urban/Rural area. (Proforma enclosed in Annexure D) Mode of construction viz. Contract/ Departmentally (at most competitive rates) or Deposit work by the PWD. A certificate from the competent authority (concerned Secretary, State Government for Technical Education) that expenditure over and above AICTE grant, if any, will be met by the State Govt./ or the college, and the construction will not be delayed for want of funds. (Proforma enclosed in Annexure E) A certificate from a competent structural engineer to certify the structural soundness of the structure to bear the load of the proposed building and soil test report etc. (Proforma enclosed in Annexure F)

Application Process:
Step 1: Kindly visit the AICTE Web Portal and log in through the Institute's Login Credential (Username & Password). Step 2: Select the Scheme to apply i.e. CAFES scheme application. Step 3: To fill out the application form, kindly refer to the validating User Manual on the AICTE website. Step 4: After completion, click on SUBMIT. Step 5: Verify that every page of the application form has the signature and stamp of the Institute’s Head. Step 6: After submitting the application form, click on reports. Step 7: In Run Report, select "CAFES" and Submit (download the report). Step 8: Upload all the essential documents along with the online application form. Helpdesk: For Scheme Related Information: Email address: cafesidc@aicte-india.org Phone Number: (011) 29581340 For Technical Information: Email address: it3idc@aicte-india.org Phone Number: (011) 29581334

Source:
https://www.myscheme.gov.in