Scheme Name:
Summer Internship Programme (PRL)

Level:
Central

Category:
Education & Learning

Tags:
Internship, Students, Teachers, Research, Graduation, Post-Graduation

Details:
The Physical Research Laboratory (PRL) Summer Internship Programme was launched by the Department of Space, Government of India. The scheme aims to provide a platform for highly motivated students and teachers to interact with PRL’s scientists, gaining exposure to the lab’s research areas and facilities. Participants will work on projects in fundamental science, technology, and their societal applications. The program offers hands-on experience in real research projects, helping young talents shape their career paths. ﻿ Duration of Internship: 45 days. ﻿ Training Mode: Offline/Online. ﻿

Benefits:
Certification: On successful completion of the program, participants will receive a certificate endorsed by PRL. Accommodation: Limited paid accommodation is available at ₹100/- per day for participants attending offline. Mentorship: Participants are mentored by PRL faculty members, offering in-depth learning experiences. Exposure to PRL's World-Class Facilities: Interns will work in PRL’s advanced laboratories and facilities across four campuses. ﻿ Note: The interns shall not be eligible for any stipend/remuneration/financial assistance. PRL does not cover medical and transport expenses. ﻿

Eligibility:
Eligibility Criteria for Student: The student should be a citizen of India. The student should be pursuing undergraduate/post-graduation from a recognized University/Institution India or Abroad The student should have just completed undergraduate/post-graduation from a recognized University/Institution, seeking an internship opportunity (within six months from the date of award of degree) for profile enhancement. The student should possess an aggregate of a minimum of 60% or a CGPA of 6.32 on a scale of 10 at all levels. The disciplines from which the applications are encouraged are optics, Laser Physics, Space Physics, Geology, Geophysics, Atmospheric Sciences, Environmental Sciences, Meteorology, Chemistry, Ocean Sciences, and related subjects. - Preference will be given to candidates who are KVPY/DST INSPIRE fellows. - We expect prospective candidates to have reasonably good proficiency in basic physics and mathematics. ﻿ Eligibility Criteria for Teacher: The teacher has an academic background in Physics, Applied Physics, Astronomy, Space Physics, Geology, and related fields. The teacher should have teaching experience minimum of five years at the graduate/postgraduate level. The teacher should have demonstrated interest in research as evidenced by publications or ongoing projects. The teacher should have held a PhD degree. ﻿

Required Documents:
Bonafide Certificate (duly signed by the Head of Department/Principal/Director). ﻿ Recommendation Letter (prescribed letters from HoD/Principal or Dean). ﻿ Undertaking Form (signed by the applicant, internal supervisor, and HoD/Principal). ﻿ Consent Form (from the PRL project supervisor). Proof of Nationality (Aadhaar Card, Passport, or Equivalent). Academic Certificates. Proof of Research Interest (for teachers, research publications, or project details). Accommodation Request. ﻿

Application Process:
Step-01: The student or teacher reviews the " List of Projects " available on the PRL's website and contacts the respective project supervisor for approval. Step-02: Once the project supervisor agrees, the Dean’s office is notified. The office will then share the necessary application form for completing formalities. Step-03: Fill out the application form by completing all mandatory fields and attaching self-attested copies of the required documents and submit the form as instructed. Step-04: Request a receipt or acknowledgment from the concerned authority. Ensure that the receipt includes important details such as the submission date, time, and a unique identification number, if applicable. ﻿ Note: Selected participants will receive project confirmation and instructions via email.

Source:
https://www.myscheme.gov.in